This file explains how gps.html works.
It is also useful to feed into an AI along with gps.html to help prime the API for making changes to gps.html

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The file "gps.html" is a HTML file containing a javascript program for browsing through tousands of GPS-tagged images by coordinates.

The program uses a previously generated "gpstagged.js" for a list of images to display.  "gpstagged.js" defines a list as follows, with four lines for each image consisting of a relative URL path to the image, Date/Time, Decimal Latitude and Longitude, and camera model.  Subsequent entries are separated by a blank line.

const rawImageData = `
2011/August/Margaret's BBQ/0822-201210_donald.jpg
Date/Time: 2011:08:22 20:12:10
GPS: 45.3403564,-75.7764850
Camera: DSC-HX5V

2011/August/Margaret's BBQ/0822-201220.jpg
Date/Time: ....
'

The program draws a base map using openstreetmap tiles, or locally pre-generated base maps if declared by variable BasemapsDir in included file 'basemaps/basemaps.js'.  After drawing the base maps, it draws dots on the map representing where images were taken. for some views, more than 15000 images fall within the shown map view.  Image close together or with the same Lat/Lon coordinates are represented by first brightening the dot representing two, then growing it by cube root for the number of images it represents.  As the dot grows larger, it will cover a larger area and may encompass images that fall within its radius  A subsequent pass is run on the data to see if larger cluster circles should sallow nearby smaller clusters that were created before the cluster grew as large, and if so, merges the swallowed closters into the larger cluster.

As many images can fall on the exact same lat/lon coordinates, a small amount of "jitter" is added to latitude and longitude when very zoomed in so that inages with the same coordinates are represented by an outwards spiraling cluster of dots.

The map can be panned and zoomed with the mouse or with touch inputs on mobile.  For speed, a smaller list of images visible within the current window is calculated and clustered.  These images have pixel coordinates, so that lookups and display does not require conversion to and from latitude and longitude.  The visible images list is not recomputed unless the view changes (panning) or time-based filtering changes the visible list.

Images can be selected with a mouse click, and a small preview of the image is shown in the top right of the window, along with metadata of the image.  The selected image is also shown as a red dot on the map instead of a cyan one.  If the image is part of the cluster, the red dot is dranw on top of the larger dot represening the culuster.  If the mouse hovers over a different image from the selected image, that image is displayed instead, but when the mouse moves away from that image dot, it reverts to displaying the selected image preview, or no image if none is selected.
The image in the preview links to the full size image,  the path in the preview image links to an index.html in the directory the image came from (assuming this exists), and the GPS line links to google maps to pop up that coordinate, as google maps provides more detail than the map tiles I use.

A separate scale bar is displayed on the top left of the image, indicating how large a kilometer, meter, or whatever distance that is a multiple of 1,2 or 5 times a power of 10 that fits in the alloted space for the bar at the top left of the window.

There is also a button to display the current window view on google maps.  In addition, a google maps URL may be dragged onto into the view, which sets the view to the coordinates and zoom level from the google maps URL.

A time-histogram is displayed on the top left below the scale bar, showing the distribution over time of the images that fall within the lat/lon coordinates of the current window's coordinates.  The time scale of the histogram is automatically adjusted based on the date range of the photos that geographically fall within the view, The start and end of the histogram scale are rounded down and up it always starts and ends with the start/end of a year.
The histogram also has two sliders that can be dragged with the mouse.
As there are two sliders on the same bar, they are not standard HTML widgets.  Mouse events for the the sliders are processed separately from those for the main window canvas via a hit-box div overlaying the sliders and time scale of the histogram.  The sliders are not standard HTML sliders as thee are two sliders on the bar and to control the styling.

The sliders start at each end of the scale bar and if moved, only photos for the times between the sliders will be marked on the main canvas.  If the sliders are at the start or end of the bar, that means no start or end cutoff for the images shown, so both sliders at the ends of the bar (the default) means no time-based filtering is applied.
Clicking on the histogram time scale between the sliders will select the image nearest to the time that spot on the histogram represents.  If the mouse is held down and moved (a drag) this scrubs through images time-wise, updating the preview and highlighted dot as the mouse is moved.
A red mark on the histogram time scale also shows the time on the histogram of the currently selected image.

If an image is selected, it is also possible ot flip through images chronologically previous and next using the cursor left, right keys.  The home key also goes to the earliest image within the filtered view and end key goes to the last image.

It is also possible to zoom in on a part of the time scale between the start and end filter marker using the 'Z' key or by pushing the zoom buton above the time histogram.  Placing either of the markers at the end of the scale effectively places the marker at infinitely early or infinitely late, while the displayed start and end of the scale are computed automatically.

